Linux - Workouts 1 - 3 Improvements (#2096)
enkidevs/curriculum: linux/user-and-file-management/manipulating-environment-variables/manipulating-environment-variables.md

category: must-know

tags:
  - introduction
  - shell
  - environment
  - variables

---

# Shell vs Environment

---
## Content

Shell and environment variables are slightly different.

You can define a new shell variable using the `=` operator:

```shell
drink="water"
echo $drink
water
```

> Shell variables are used only by the shell itself, and not available to any of its children processes. They are commonly used in scripts to make calculations and to store intermediate results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shell variables are used only by the shell itself, and not available to any of its child processes. 

They are commonly used in scripts to make calculations and to store intermediate results.
```

> Environment variables are shell variables that have been exported, being available to its child process. We achieve this using the `export` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shell variables can be converted into environment variables with the `export` command:
```

```shell

> export DRINK="water"
> echo $DRINK
> water

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# export DRINK shell variable
# into the environment
export DRINK="water"
echo $DRINK
water
```

```

> Notice anything different? To avoid overwriting an important environment variable, it is **strongly recommended to write them in uppercase**. This way, you don't need to remember all the environment variables used by your system, you can look at the letter case.
> 
> > **Remember:** if it's your variable **lowercase it**. If you export it, **uppercase it**.

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing? 

`DRINK` is uppercase the whole time in this insight. There are no lowercase variables.

I added a prior comment to mention the uppercase naming convention in one of the first insights in this workout. 

Let's simplify this like this:

```suggestion
> ⚠️When exporting a variable into the environment, be careful not to overwrite another important environment variable. 
```
